Angular version 4 was released on March 17th
of 2017.
The team has already made a minor release
for version 4.1 and is working on release
candidates for 4.2.
What does this mean to those of us that are
new to Angular and just coming to grips with
Angular 2?
Well first, the good news is that there are
no breaking changes.
So this means you can easily upgrade your
existing Angular 2 apps to version 4 by simply
changing the versions in your package.json
file and then re-installing your packages.
Why the jump from 2 to 4?
The reason for this is that the Angular Router
had already received a major update from 2
to 3.
And to keep everything in line, the team decided
to make the next major release as version
4.
The Team has decided on using Semantic Versioning.
This means there will be a major release every
6 months and minor releases every 1-3 months.
So now you can expect the next major release
of Angular which will be version 5 toward
the end of 2017.
This will enable Angular to keep evolving
with new features being added and obsolete
ones removed.
The link to Angular Semantic Versioning explained
will be provided in the description.
Moving forward how do we refer to angular,
should we keep on calling it Angular 2, 4
and in the future 5?
The team would like us to just use the term
Angular to refer to all current and future
versions, since the core framework features
like Components, Services and Observables
will not be changing.
So now that we've discussed the fact that
are no breaking changes between version 2
and 4, what changes have been made?
Most of the changes in Angular 4 are performance
improvements for the framework.
The most significant change being the introduction
of Flat ES6 Modules that treeshake your application.
This involves the compiler removing unnecessary
code in order to reduce file size and help
to render the application faster.
The way that we use animations has changed.
Now we can just include BrowserAnimationsModule
from @angular/platform-browser/animations
into our NgModule instead of having to import
all the various types like trigger, style
and transition from angular/core.
When using ngIf in our templates, we now have
the option of using an else statement.
We can use the element ng-template to specify
the name of our else condition after the hash
symbol.
And then just declare whatever we want shown
in the event our showIf is false.
An email validation directive has also been
included.
We can now just use the keyword email inside
of our input field and we will automatically
have proper email validation inside our input.
A great website for checking what is required
for updating to newer versions of angular
is angular-update-guide.firebase.com.
Here
you can choose which version your upgrading
to and from while also specifying your app's
complexity.
The Angular team is emphasizing backwards
compatibility to help us make a seamless transition
from Angular 2 and expect more of the same
in future versions.
When changes do occur they'll probably be
more in the form of API deprecations with
very good error messages in our console for
whenever we run into them.
So now you hopefully have a better understanding
of what Angular 4 is all about and what the
future of Angular looks like.